CHAPTER 15. REPRESENTATION LEARNING
and continues to influence contemporary approaches. The idea of pretraining has been generalized to supervised pretraining discussed in section 8.7.4, as a very common approach for transfer learning. Supervised pretraining for transfer learning is popular (Oquab et al., 2014; Yosinski et al., 2014) for use with convolutional networks pretrained on the ImageNet dataset. Practitioners publish the parameters of these trained networks for this purpose, just like pretrained word vectors are published for natural language tasks (Collobert et al., 2011a; Mikolov et al., 2013a).
15.2 Transfer Learning and Domain Adaptation
Transfer learning and domain adaptation refer to the situation where what has been learned in one setting (i.e., distribution P1) is exploited to improve generalization in another setting (say distribution P2). This generalizes the idea presented in the previous section, where we transferred representations between an unsupervised learning task and a supervised learning task.
In transfer learning, the learner must perform two or more different tasks, but we assume that many of the factors that explain the variations in P1 are relevant to the variations that need to be captured for learning P2. This is typically understood in a supervised learning context, where the input is the same but the target may be of a different nature. For example, we may learn about one set of visual categories, such as cats and dogs, in the first setting, then learn about a different set of visual categories, such as ants and wasps, in the second setting. If there is significantly more data in the first setting (sampled from P1), then that may help to learn representations that are useful to quickly generalize from only very few examples drawn from P2. Many visual categories share low-level notions of edges and visual shapes, the effects of geometric changes, changes in lighting, etc. In general, transfer learning, multi-task learning (section 7.7), and domain adaptation can be achieved via representation learning when there exist features that are useful for the different settings or tasks, corresponding to underlying factors that appear in more than one setting. This is illustrated in figure 7.2, with shared lower layers and task-dependent upper layers.
However, sometimes, what is shared among the different tasks is not the semantics of the input but the semantics of the output. For example, a speech recognition system needs to produce valid sentences at the output layer, but the earlier layers near the input may need to recognize very different versions of the same phonemes or sub-phonemic vocalizations depending on which person is speaking. In cases like these, it makes more sense to share the upper layers (near the output) of the neural network, and have a task-specific preprocessing, as
536

