CHAPTER 15. REPRESENTATION LEARNING
This provides a geometric argument to explain the generalization power of distributed representation: with O(nd ) parameters (for n linear-threshold features in Rd ) we can distinctly represent O(nd) regions in input space. If instead we made no assumption at all about the data, and used a representation with one unique symbol for each region, and separate parameters for each symbol to recognize its corresponding portion of Rd, then specifying O(nd) regions would require O(nd) examples. More generally, the argument in favor of the distributed representation could be extended to the case where instead of using linear threshold units we use nonlinear, possibly continuous, feature extractors for each of the attributes in the distributed representation. The argument in this case is that if a parametric transformation with k parameters can learn about r regions in input space, with k  r, and if obtaining such a representation was useful to the task of interest, then we could potentially generalize much better in this way than in a non-distributed setting where we would need O(r) examples to obtain the same features and associated partitioning of the input space into r regions. Using fewer parameters to represent the model means that we have fewer parameters to fit, and thus require far fewer training examples to generalize well.
A further part of the argument for why models based on distributed representations generalize well is that their capacity remains limited despite being able to distinctly encode so many different regions. For example, the VC dimension of a neural network of linear threshold units is only O(w log w ), where w is the number of weights (Sontag, 1998). This limitation arises because, while we can assign very many unique codes to representation space, we cannot use absolutely all of the code space, nor can we learn arbitrary functions mapping from the representation space h to the output y using a linear classifier. The use of a distributed representation combined with a linear classifier thus expresses a prior belief that the classes to be recognized are linearly separable as a function of the underlying causal factors captured by h. We will typically want to learn categories such as the set of all images of all green objects or the set of all images of cars, but not categories that require nonlinear, XOR logic. For example, we typically do not want to partition the data into the set of all red cars and green trucks as one class and the set of all green cars and red trucks as another class.
The ideas discussed so far have been abstract, but they may be experimentally validated. Zhou et al. (2015) find that hidden units in a deep convolutional network trained on the ImageNet and Places benchmark datasets learn features that are very often interpretable, corresponding to a label that humans would naturally assign. In practice it is certainly not always the case that hidden units learn something that has a simple linguistic name, but it is interesting to see this emerge near the top levels of the best computer vision deep networks. What such features have in
551

