CHAPTER 3. PROBABILITY AND INFORMATION THEORY
has certain symptoms. For more details about why a small set of common sense assumptions implies that the same axioms must control both kinds of probability, see Ramsey (1926).
Probability can be seen as the extension of logic to deal with uncertainty. Logic provides a set of formal rules for determining what propositions are implied to be true or false given the assumption that some other set of propositions is true or false. Probability theory provides a set of formal rules for determining the likelihood of a proposition being true given the likelihood of other propositions.
3.2 Random Variables
A random variable is a variable that can take on different values randomly. We typically denote the random variable itself with a lower case letter in plain typeface, and the values it can take on with lower case script letters. For example, x1 and x2 are both possible values that the random variable x can take on. For vector-valued variables, we would write the random variable as x and one of its values as x. On its own, a random variable is just a description of the states that are possible; it must be coupled with a probability distribution that specifies how likely each of these states are.
Random variables may be discrete or continuous. A discrete random variable is one that has a finite or countably infinite number of states. Note that these states are not necessarily the integers; they can also just be named states that are not considered to have any numerical value. A continuous random variable is associated with a real value.
3.3 Probability Distributions
A probability distribution is a description of how likely a random variable or set of random variables is to take on each of its possible states. The way we describe probability distributions depends on whether the variables are discrete or continuous.
3.3.1 Discrete Variables and Probability Mass Functions
A probability distribution over discrete variables may be described using a probability mass function (PMF). We typically denote probability mass functions with a capital P . Often we associate each random variable with a different probability
56

