CHAPTER 5. MACHINE LEARNING BASICS
related examples. A classic unsupervised learning task is to find the "best" representation of the
data. By `best' we can mean different things, but generally speaking we are looking for a representation that preserves as much information about x as possible while obeying some penalty or constraint aimed at keeping the representation simpler or more accessible than x itself.
There are multiple ways of defining a simpler representation. Three of the most common include lower dimensional representations, sparse representations and independent representations. Low-dimensional representations attempt to compress as much information about x as possible in a smaller representation. Sparse representations (Barlow, 1989; Olshausen and Field, 1996; Hinton and Ghahramani, 1997) embed the dataset into a representation whose entries are mostly zeroes for most inputs. The use of sparse representations typically requires increasing the dimensionality of the representation, so that the representation becoming mostly zeroes does not discard too much information. This results in an overall structure of the representation that tends to distribute data along the axes of the representation space. Independent representations attempt to disentangle the sources of variation underlying the data distribution such that the dimensions of the representation are statistically independent.
Of course these three criteria are certainly not mutually exclusive. Lowdimensional representations often yield elements that have fewer or weaker dependencies than the original high-dimensional data. This is because one way to reduce the size of a representation is to find and remove redundancies. Identifying and removing more redundancy allows the dimensionality reduction algorithm to achieve more compression while discarding less information.
The notion of representation is one of the central themes of deep learning and therefore one of the central themes in this book. In this section, we develop some simple examples of representation learning algorithms. Together, these example algorithms show how to operationalize all three of the criteria above. Most of the remaining chapters introduce additional representation learning algorithms that develop these criteria in different ways or introduce other criteria.
5.8.1 Principal Components Analysis
In section 2.12, we saw that the principal components analysis algorithm provides a means of compressing data. We can also view PCA as an unsupervised learning algorithm that learns a representation of data. This representation is based on two of the criteria for a simple representation described above. PCA learns a
147

