CHAPTER 2. LINEAR ALGEBRA

This implies that

A-1 = A,

(2.38)

so orthogonal matrices are of interest because their inverse is very cheap to compute. Pay careful attention to the definition of orthogonal matrices. Counterintuitively, their rows are not merely orthogonal but fully orthonormal. There is no special term for a matrix whose rows or columns are orthogonal but not orthonormal.

2.7 Eigendecomposition

Many mathematical objects can be understood better by breaking them into constituent parts, or finding some properties of them that are universal, not caused by the way we choose to represent them.
For example, integers can be decomposed into prime factors. The way we represent the number 12 will change depending on whether we write it in base ten or in binary, but it will always be true that 12 = 2× 2 × 3. From this representation we can conclude useful properties, such as that 12 is not divisible by 5, or that any integer multiple of 12 will be divisible by 3.
Much as we can discover something about the true nature of an integer by decomposing it into prime factors, we can also decompose matrices in ways that show us information about their functional properties that is not obvious from the representation of the matrix as an array of elements.
One of the most widely used kinds of matrix decomposition is called eigendecomposition, in which we decompose a matrix into a set of eigenvectors and eigenvalues.
An eigenvector of a square matrix A is a non-zero vector v such that multiplication by A alters only the scale of v:

Av = v.

(2.39)

The scalar  is known as the eigenvalue corresponding to this eigenvector. (One can also find a left eigenvector such that vA = v, but we are usually concerned with right eigenvectors).
If v is an eigenvector of A, then so is any rescaled vector sv for s  R, s  = 0. Moreover, sv still has the same eigenvalue. For this reason, we usually only look for unit eigenvectors.
Suppose that a matrix A has n linearly independent eigenvectors, {v(1) , . . . , v(n)}, with corresponding eigenvalues {1, . . . , n}. We may concatenate all of the

42

