CHAPTER 6. DEEP FEEDFORWARD NETWORKS
In these chain-based architectures, the main architectural considerations are to choose the depth of the network and the width of each layer. As we will see, a network with even one hidden layer is sufficient to fit the training set. Deeper networks often are able to use far fewer units per layer and far fewer parameters and often generalize to the test set, but are also often harder to optimize. The ideal network architecture for a task must be found via experimentation guided by monitoring the validation set error.
6.4.1 Universal Approximation Properties and Depth
A linear model, mapping from features to outputs via matrix multiplication, can by definition represent only linear functions. It has the advantage of being easy to train because many loss functions result in convex optimization problems when applied to linear models. Unfortunately, we often want to learn nonlinear functions.
At first glance, we might presume that learning a nonlinear function requires designing a specialized model family for the kind of nonlinearity we want to learn. Fortunately, feedforward networks with hidden layers provide a universal approximation framework. Specifically, the universal approximation theorem (Hornik et al., 1989; Cybenko, 1989) states that a feedforward network with a linear output layer and at least one hidden layer with any "squashing" activation function (such as the logistic sigmoid activation function) can approximate any Borel measurable function from one finite-dimensional space to another with any desired non-zero amount of error, provided that the network is given enough hidden units. The derivatives of the feedforward network can also approximate the derivatives of the function arbitrarily well (Hornik et al., 1990). The concept of Borel measurability is beyond the scope of this book; for our purposes it suffices to say that any continuous function on a closed and bounded subset of Rn is Borel measurable and therefore may be approximated by a neural network. A neural network may also approximate any function mapping from any finite dimensional discrete space to another. While the original theorems were first stated in terms of units with activation functions that saturate both for very negative and for very positive arguments, universal approximation theorems have also been proved for a wider class of activation functions, which includes the now commonly used rectified linear unit (Leshno et al., 1993).
The universal approximation theorem means that regardless of what function we are trying to learn, we know that a large MLP will be able to represent this function. However, we are not guaranteed that the training algorithm will be able to learn that function. Even if the MLP is able to represent the function, learning can fail for two different reasons. First, the optimization algorithm used for training
198

