CHAPTER 2. LINEAR ALGEBRA

example, we might say "Let s  R be the slope of the line," while defining a real-valued scalar, or "Let n  N be the number of units," while defining a natural number scalar.

· Vectors: A vector is an array of numbers. The numbers are arranged in

order. We can identify each individual number by its index in that ordering.

Typically we give vectors lower case names written in bold typeface, such

as x. The elements of the vector are identified by writing its name in italic

typeface, with a subscript. The first element of x is x1, the second element is x2 and so on. We also need to say what kind of numbers are stored in the vector. If each element is in R, and the vector has n elements, then the

vector lies in the set formed by taking the Cartesian product of R n times, denoted as Rn. When we need to explicitly identify the elements of a vector,

we write them as a column enclosed in square brackets:



x1

x = 

x2 ...

 .

(2.1)

xn

We can think of vectors as identifying points in space, with each element giving the coordinate along a different axis.
Sometimes we need to index a set of elements of a vector. In this case, we define a set containing the indices and write the set as a subscript. For example, to access x1, x3 and x6, we define the set S = {1, 3, 6} and write xS. We use the - sign to index the complement of a set. For example x-1 is the vector containing all elements of x except for x1, and x-S is the vector containing all of the elements of x except for x1, x3 and x6 .
· Matrices: A matrix is a 2-D array of numbers, so each element is identified by two indices instead of just one. We usually give matrices upper-case variable names with bold typeface, such as A. If a real-valued matrix A has a height of m and a width of n, then we say that A  Rm×n. We usually identify the elements of a matrix using its name in italic but not bold font, and the indices are listed with separating commas. For example, A1,1 is the upper left entry of A and Am,n is the bottom right entry. We can identify all of the numbers with vertical coordinate i by writing a ":" for the horizontal coordinate. For example, Ai,: denotes the horizontal cross section of A with vertical coordinate i. This is known as the i-th row of A. Likewise, A:,i is

32

