CHAPTER 18. CONFRONTING THE PARTITION FUNCTION

described in section 5.4.5. Kingma and LeCun (2010) introduced a procedure for performing regularized score matching with the smoothing distribution q being normally distributed noise.
Recall from section 14.5.1 that several autoencoder training algorithms are equivalent to score matching or denoising score matching. These autoencoder training algorithms are therefore a way of overcoming the partition function problem.

18.6 Noise-Contrastive Estimation

Most techniques for estimating models with intractable partition functions do not provide an estimate of the partition function. SML and CD estimate only the gradient of the log partition function, rather than the partition function itself. Score matching and pseudolikelihood avoid computing quantities related to the partition function altogether.
Noise-contrastive estimation (NCE) (Gutmann and Hyvarinen, 2010) takes a different strategy. In this approach, the probability distribution estimated by the model is represented explicitly as

log pmodel (x) = log p~model (x; ) + c,

(18.28)

where c is explicitly introduced as an approximation of - log Z(). Rather than estimating only  , the noise contrastive estimation procedure treats c as just another parameter and estimates  and c simultaneously, using the same algorithm for both. The resulting log p model(x) thus may not correspond exactly to a valid probability distribution, but will become closer and closer to being valid as the estimate of c improves.1
Such an approach would not be possible using maximum likelihood as the criterion for the estimator. The maximum likelihood criterion would choose to set c arbitrarily high, rather than setting c to create a valid probability distribution.
NCE works by reducing the unsupervised learning problem of estimating p(x) to that of learning a probabilistic binary classifier in which one of the categories corresponds to the data generated by the model. This supervised learning problem is constructed in such a way that maximum likelihood estimation in this supervised
1
NCE is also applicable to problems with a tractable partition function, where there is no need to introduce the extra parameter c. However, it has generated the most interest as a means
of estimating models with difficult partition functions.

620

