CHAPTER 3. PROBABILITY AND INFORMATION THEORY

mass function and the reader must infer which probability mass function to use based on the identity of the random variable, rather than the name of the function; P (x) is usually not the same as P (y).
The probability mass function maps from a state of a random variable to the probability of that random variable taking on that state. The probability that x = x is denoted as P (x), with a probability of 1 indicating that x = x is certain and a probability of 0 indicating that x = x is impossible. Sometimes to disambiguate which PMF to use, we write the name of the random variable explicitly: P (x = x). Sometimes we define a variable first, then use  notation to specify which distribution it follows later: x  P (x).
Probability mass functions can act on many variables at the same time. Such a probability distribution over many variables is known as a joint probability distribution. P (x = x, y = y ) denotes the probability that x = x and y = y simultaneously. We may also write P (x, y) for brevity.
To be a probability mass function on a random variable x, a function P must satisfy the following properties:

· The domain of P must be the set of all possible states of x.

· x  x, 0  P (x)  1. An impossible event has probability 0 and no state can

be less probable than that. Likewise, an event that is guaranteed to happen

has probability 1, and no state can have a greater chance of occurring.

·

 xx P (x)

= 1.

We

refer

to

this

property

as

being

normalized.

Without

this property, we could obtain probabilities greater than one by computing

the probability of one of many events occurring.

For example, consider a single discrete random variable x with k different states. We can place a uniform distribution on x--that is, make each of its states equally likely--by setting its probability mass function to

1 P (x = xi) = k

(3.1)

for all i. We can see that this fits the requirements for a probability mass function.

The

value

1 k

is positive because k is a positive integer.

We also see that



1 k

P (x = xi) = k = k = 1,

i

i

(3.2)

so the distribution is properly normalized.

57

