CHAPTER 3. PROBABILITY AND INFORMATION THEORY

mathematical object called a generalized function that is defined in terms of its properties when integrated. We can think of the Dirac delta function as being the limit point of a series of functions that put less and less mass on all points other than zero.

By defining p(x) to be  shifted by -µ we obtain an infinitely narrow and infinitely high peak of probability mass where x = µ.

A common use of the Dirac delta distribution is as a component of an empirical

distribution,

p^(x) = 1  m (x - x(i)) m
i=1

(3.28)

which

puts probability mass

1 m

on each of the m points x(1) , . . . , x(m)

forming

a

given dataset or collection of samples. The Dirac delta distribution is only necessary

to define the empirical distribution over continuous variables. For discrete variables,

the situation is simpler: an empirical distribution can be conceptualized as a

multinoulli distribution, with a probability associated to each possible input value

that is simply equal to the empirical frequency of that value in the training set.

We can view the empirical distribution formed from a dataset of training examples as specifying the distribution that we sample from when we train a model on this dataset. Another important perspective on the empirical distribution is that it is the probability density that maximizes the likelihood of the training data (see section 5.5).

3.9.6 Mixtures of Distributions

It is also common to define probability distributions by combining other simpler

probability distributions. One common way of combining distributions is to

construct a mixture distribution. A mixture distribution is made up of several

component distributions. On each trial, the choice of which component distribution

generates the sample is determined by sampling a component identity from a

multinoulli distribution:

 P (x) = P (c = i)P (x | c = i)

(3.29)

i

where P (c) is the multinoulli distribution over component identities.
We have already seen one example of a mixture distribution: the empirical distribution over real-valued variables is a mixture distribution with one Dirac component for each training example.

66

