CHAPTER 5. MACHINE LEARNING BASICS
an optimization algorithm, a cost function, a model, and a dataset to build a machine learning algorithm. Finally, in section 5.11, we describe some of the factors that have limited the ability of traditional machine learning to generalize. These challenges have motivated the development of deep learning algorithms that overcome these obstacles.
5.1 Learning Algorithms
A machine learning algorithm is an algorithm that is able to learn from data. But what do we mean by learning? Mitchell (1997) provides the definition "A computer program is said to learn from experience E with respect to some class of tasks T and performance measure P , if its performance at tasks in T , as measured by P , improves with experience E." One can imagine a very wide variety of experiences E, tasks T , and performance measures P , and we do not make any attempt in this book to provide a formal definition of what may be used for each of these entities. Instead, the following sections provide intuitive descriptions and examples of the different kinds of tasks, performance measures and experiences that can be used to construct machine learning algorithms.
5.1.1 The Task, T
Machine learning allows us to tackle tasks that are too difficult to solve with fixed programs written and designed by human beings. From a scientific and philosophical point of view, machine learning is interesting because developing our understanding of machine learning entails developing our understanding of the principles that underlie intelligence.
In this relatively formal definition of the word "task," the process of learning itself is not the task. Learning is our means of attaining the ability to perform the task. For example, if we want a robot to be able to walk, then walking is the task. We could program the robot to learn to walk, or we could attempt to directly write a program that specifies how to walk manually.
Machine learning tasks are usually described in terms of how the machine learning system should process an example. An example is a collection of features that have been quantitatively measured from some object or event that we want the machine learning system to process. We typically represent an example as a vector x  Rn where each entry xi of the vector is another feature. For example, the features of an image are usually the values of the pixels in the image.
99

