CHAPTER 5. MACHINE LEARNING BASICS

defined in section 5.1.1. Sometimes we will also call examples data points.

One of the oldest datasets studied by statisticians and machine learning researchers is the Iris dataset (Fisher, 1936). It is a collection of measurements of different parts of 150 iris plants. Each individual plant corresponds to one example. The features within each example are the measurements of each of the parts of the plant: the sepal length, sepal width, petal length and petal width. The dataset also records which species each plant belonged to. Three different species are represented in the dataset.

Unsupervised learning algorithms experience a dataset containing many features, then learn useful properties of the structure of this dataset. In the context of deep learning, we usually want to learn the entire probability distribution that generated a dataset, whether explicitly as in density estimation or implicitly for tasks like synthesis or denoising. Some other unsupervised learning algorithms perform other roles, like clustering, which consists of dividing the dataset into clusters of similar examples.

Supervised learning algorithms experience a dataset containing features, but each example is also associated with a label or target. For example, the Iris dataset is annotated with the species of each iris plant. A supervised learning algorithm can study the Iris dataset and learn to classify iris plants into three different species based on their measurements.

Roughly speaking, unsupervised learning involves observing several examples of a random vector x, and attempting to implicitly or explicitly learn the probability distribution p(x), or some interesting properties of that distribution, while supervised learning involves observing several examples of a random vector x and an associated value or vector y, and learning to predict y from x, usually by estimating p(y | x). The term supervised learning originates from the view of the target y being provided by an instructor or teacher who shows the machine learning system what to do. In unsupervised learning, there is no instructor or teacher, and the algorithm must learn to make sense of the data without this guide.

Unsupervised learning and supervised learning are not formally defined terms.
The lines between them are often blurred. Many machine learning technologies can be used to perform both tasks. For example, the chain rule of probability states that for a vector x  Rn, the joint distribution can be decomposed as

n p(x) = p(xi | x1, . . . , xi-1).
i=1

(5.1)

This decomposition means that we can solve the ostensibly unsupervised problem of modeling p(x) by splitting it into n supervised learning problems. Alternatively, we

105

