CHAPTER 1. INTRODUCTION
learn about redness from images of cars, trucks and birds, not only from images of one specific category of objects. The concept of distributed representation is central to this book, and will be described in greater detail in chapter 15.
Another major accomplishment of the connectionist movement was the successful use of back-propagation to train deep neural networks with internal representations and the popularization of the back-propagation algorithm (Rumelhart et al., 1986a; LeCun, 1987). This algorithm has waxed and waned in popularity but as of this writing is currently the dominant approach to training deep models.
During the 1990s, researchers made important advances in modeling sequences with neural networks. Hochreiter (1991) and Bengio et al. (1994) identified some of the fundamental mathematical difficulties in modeling long sequences, described in section 10.7. Hochreiter and Schmidhuber (1997) introduced the long short-term memory or LSTM network to resolve some of these difficulties. Today, the LSTM is widely used for many sequence modeling tasks, including many natural language processing tasks at Google.
The second wave of neural networks research lasted until the mid-1990s. Ventures based on neural networks and other AI technologies began to make unrealistically ambitious claims while seeking investments. When AI research did not fulfill these unreasonable expectations, investors were disappointed. Simultaneously, other fields of machine learning made advances. Kernel machines (Boser et al., 1992; Cortes and Vapnik, 1995; Schölkopf et al., 1999) and graphical models (Jordan, 1998) both achieved good results on many important tasks. These two factors led to a decline in the popularity of neural networks that lasted until 2007.
During this time, neural networks continued to obtain impressive performance on some tasks (LeCun et al., 1998b; Bengio et al., 2001). The Canadian Institute for Advanced Research (CIFAR) helped to keep neural networks research alive via its Neural Computation and Adaptive Perception (NCAP) research initiative. This program united machine learning research groups led by Geoffrey Hinton at University of Toronto, Yoshua Bengio at University of Montreal, and Yann LeCun at New York University. The CIFAR NCAP research initiative had a multi-disciplinary nature that also included neuroscientists and experts in human and computer vision.
At this point in time, deep networks were generally believed to be very difficult to train. We now know that algorithms that have existed since the 1980s work quite well, but this was not apparent circa 2006. The issue is perhaps simply that these algorithms were too computationally costly to allow much experimentation with the hardware available at the time.
The third wave of neural networks research began with a breakthrough in
18

