CHAPTER 16. STRUCTURED PROBABILISTIC MODELS FOR DEEP LEARNING
usually not very easy for a human to interpret after the fact, though visualization techniques may allow some rough characterization of what they represent. When latent variables are used in the context of traditional graphical models, they are often designed with some specific semantics in mind--the topic of a document, the intelligence of a student, the disease causing a patient's symptoms, etc. These models are often much more interpretable by human practitioners and often have more theoretical guarantees, yet are less able to scale to complex problems and are not reusable in as many different contexts as deep models.
Another obvious difference is the kind of connectivity typically used in the deep learning approach. Deep graphical models typically have large groups of units that are all connected to other groups of units, so that the interactions between two groups may be described by a single matrix. Traditional graphical models have very few connections and the choice of connections for each variable may be individually designed. The design of the model structure is tightly linked with the choice of inference algorithm. Traditional approaches to graphical models typically aim to maintain the tractability of exact inference. When this constraint is too limiting, a popular approximate inference algorithm is an algorithm called loopy belief propagation. Both of these approaches often work well with very sparsely connected graphs. By comparison, models used in deep learning tend to connect each visible unit vi to very many hidden units hj, so that h can provide a distributed representation of vi (and probably several other observed variables too). Distributed representations have many advantages, but from the point of view of graphical models and computational complexity, distributed representations have the disadvantage of usually yielding graphs that are not sparse enough for the traditional techniques of exact inference and loopy belief propagation to be relevant. As a consequence, one of the most striking differences between the larger graphical models community and the deep graphical models community is that loopy belief propagation is almost never used for deep learning. Most deep models are instead designed to make Gibbs sampling or variational inference algorithms efficient. Another consideration is that deep learning models contain a very large number of latent variables, making efficient numerical code essential. This provides an additional motivation, besides the choice of high-level inference algorithm, for grouping the units into layers with a matrix describing the interaction between two layers. This allows the individual steps of the algorithm to be implemented with efficient matrix product operations, or sparsely connected generalizations, like block diagonal matrix products or convolutions.
Finally, the deep learning approach to graphical modeling is characterized by a marked tolerance of the unknown. Rather than simplifying the model until all quantities we might want can be computed exactly, we increase the power of
586

