CHAPTER 16. STRUCTURED PROBABILISTIC MODELS FOR DEEP LEARNING
16.2.6 Converting between Undirected and Directed Graphs
We often refer to a specific machine learning model as being undirected or directed. For example, we typically refer to RBMs as undirected and sparse coding as directed. This choice of wording can be somewhat misleading, because no probabilistic model is inherently directed or undirected. Instead, some models are most easily described using a directed graph, or most easily described using an undirected graph.
Directed models and undirected models both have their advantages and disadvantages. Neither approach is clearly superior and universally preferred. Instead, we should choose which language to use for each task. This choice will partially depend on which probability distribution we wish to describe. We may choose to use either directed modeling or undirected modeling based on which approach can capture the most independences in the probability distribution or which approach uses the fewest edges to describe the distribution. There are other factors that can affect the decision of which language to use. Even while working with a single probability distribution, we may sometimes switch between different modeling languages. Sometimes a different language becomes more appropriate if we observe a certain subset of variables, or if we wish to perform a different computational task. For example, the directed model description often provides a straightforward approach to efficiently draw samples from the model (described in section 16.3) while the undirected model formulation is often useful for deriving approximate inference procedures (as we will see in chapter 19, where the role of undirected models is highlighted in equation 19.56).
Every probability distribution can be represented by either a directed model or by an undirected model. In the worst case, one can always represent any distribution by using a "complete graph." In the case of a directed model, the complete graph is any directed acyclic graph where we impose some ordering on the random variables, and each variable has all other variables that precede it in the ordering as its ancestors in the graph. For an undirected model, the complete graph is simply a graph containing a single clique encompassing all of the variables. See figure 16.10 for an example.
Of course, the utility of a graphical model is that the graph implies that some variables do not interact directly. The complete graph is not very useful because it does not imply any independences.
When we represent a probability distribution with a graph, we want to choose a graph that implies as many independences as possible, without implying any independences that do not actually exist.
From this point of view, some distributions can be represented more efficiently
576

