CHAPTER 1. INTRODUCTION
of the flowchart of the computations needed to compute the representation of each concept may be much deeper than the graph of the concepts themselves. This is because the system's understanding of the simpler concepts can be refined given information about the more complex concepts. For example, an AI system observing an image of a face with one eye in shadow may initially only see one eye. After detecting that a face is present, it can then infer that a second eye is probably present as well. In this case, the graph of concepts only includes two layers--a layer for eyes and a layer for faces--but the graph of computations includes 2n layers if we refine our estimate of each concept given the other n times.
Because it is not always clear which of these two views--the depth of the computational graph, or the depth of the probabilistic modeling graph--is most relevant, and because different people choose different sets of smallest elements from which to construct their graphs, there is no single correct value for the depth of an architecture, just as there is no single correct value for the length of a computer program. Nor is there a consensus about how much depth a model requires to qualify as "deep." However, deep learning can safely be regarded as the study of models that either involve a greater amount of composition of learned functions or learned concepts than traditional machine learning does.
To summarize, deep learning, the subject of this book, is an approach to AI. Specifically, it is a type of machine learning, a technique that allows computer systems to improve with experience and data. According to the authors of this book, machine learning is the only viable approach to building AI systems that can operate in complicated, real-world environments. Deep learning is a particular kind of machine learning that achieves great power and flexibility by learning to represent the world as a nested hierarchy of concepts, with each concept defined in relation to simpler concepts, and more abstract representations computed in terms of less abstract ones. Figure 1.4 illustrates the relationship between these different AI disciplines. Figure 1.5 gives a high-level schematic of how each works.
1.1 Who Should Read This Book?
This book can be useful for a variety of readers, but we wrote it with two main target audiences in mind. One of these target audiences is university students (undergraduate or graduate) learning about machine learning, including those who are beginning a career in deep learning and artificial intelligence research. The other target audience is software engineers who do not have a machine learning or statistics background, but want to rapidly acquire one and begin using deep learning in their product or platform. Deep learning has already proven useful in
8

