CHAPTER 5. MACHINE LEARNING BASICS
parametric learning algorithm inside another algorithm that increases the number of parameters as needed. For example, we could imagine an outer loop of learning that changes the degree of the polynomial learned by linear regression on top of a polynomial expansion of the input.
The ideal model is an oracle that simply knows the true probability distribution that generates the data. Even such a model will still incur some error on many problems, because there may still be some noise in the distribution. In the case of supervised learning, the mapping from x to y may be inherently stochastic, or y may be a deterministic function that involves other variables besides those included in x. The error incurred by an oracle making predictions from the true distribution p(x, y) is called the Bayes error.
Training and generalization error vary as the size of the training set varies. Expected generalization error can never increase as the number of training examples increases. For non-parametric models, more data yields better generalization until the best possible error is achieved. Any fixed parametric model with less than optimal capacity will asymptote to an error value that exceeds the Bayes error. See figure 5.4 for an illustration. Note that it is possible for the model to have optimal capacity and yet still have a large gap between training and generalization error. In this situation, we may be able to reduce this gap by gathering more training examples.
5.2.1 The No Free Lunch Theorem
Learning theory claims that a machine learning algorithm can generalize well from a finite training set of examples. This seems to contradict some basic principles of logic. Inductive reasoning, or inferring general rules from a limited set of examples, is not logically valid. To logically infer a rule describing every member of a set, one must have information about every member of that set.
In part, machine learning avoids this problem by offering only probabilistic rules, rather than the entirely certain rules used in purely logical reasoning. Machine learning promises to find rules that are probably correct about most members of the set they concern.
Unfortunately, even this does not resolve the entire problem. The no free lunch theorem for machine learning (Wolpert, 1996) states that, averaged over all possible data generating distributions, every classification algorithm has the same error rate when classifying previously unobserved points. In other words, in some sense, no machine learning algorithm is universally any better than any other. The most sophisticated algorithm we can conceive of has the same average
116

