CHAPTER 9. CONVOLUTIONAL NETWORKS

describes general guidelines for choosing which tools to use in which circumstances. Research into convolutional network architectures proceeds so rapidly that a new best architecture for a given benchmark is announced every few weeks to months, rendering it impractical to describe the best architecture in print. However, the best architectures have consistently been composed of the building blocks described here.

9.1 The Convolution Operation

In its most general form, convolution is an operation on two functions of a realvalued argument. To motivate the definition of convolution, we start with examples of two functions we might use.

Suppose we are tracking the location of a spaceship with a laser sensor. Our laser sensor provides a single output x(t), the position of the spaceship at time t. Both x and t are real-valued, i.e., we can get a different reading from the laser sensor at any instant in time.

Now suppose that our laser sensor is somewhat noisy. To obtain a less noisy

estimate of the spaceship's position, we would like to average together several

measurements. Of course, more recent measurements are more relevant, so we will

want this to be a weighted average that gives more weight to recent measurements.

We can do this with a weighting function w(a), where a is the age of a measurement.

If we apply such a weighted average operation at every moment, we obtain a new

function s providing a smoothed estimate of the position of the spaceship:



s(t) = x(a)w(t - a)da

(9.1)

This operation is called convolution. The convolution operation is typically

denoted with an asterisk:

s(t) = (x  w)(t)

(9.2)

In our example, w needs to be a valid probability density function, or the output is not a weighted average. Also, w needs to be 0 for all negative arguments, or it will look into the future, which is presumably beyond our capabilities. These limitations are particular to our example though. In general, convolution is defined for any functions for which the above integral is defined, and may be used for other purposes besides taking weighted averages.
In convolutional network terminology, the first argument (in this example, the function x) to the convolution is often referred to as the input and the second

331

