CHAPTER 15. REPRESENTATION LEARNING
multi-task learning. While the phrase "multi-task learning" typically refers to supervised learning tasks, the more general notion of transfer learning is applicable to unsupervised learning and reinforcement learning as well.
In all of these cases, the objective is to take advantage of data from the first setting to extract information that may be useful when learning or even when directly making predictions in the second setting. The core idea of representation learning is that the same representation may be useful in both settings. Using the same representation in both settings allows the representation to benefit from the training data that is available for both tasks.
As mentioned before, unsupervised deep learning for transfer learning has found success in some machine learning competitions (Mesnil et al., 2011; Goodfellow et al., 2011). In the first of these competitions, the experimental setup is the following. Each participant is first given a dataset from the first setting (from distribution P1), illustrating examples of some set of categories. The participants must use this to learn a good feature space (mapping the raw input to some representation), such that when we apply this learned transformation to inputs from the transfer setting (distribution P2), a linear classifier can be trained and generalize well from very few labeled examples. One of the most striking results found in this competition is that as an architecture makes use of deeper and deeper representations (learned in a purely unsupervised way from data collected in the first setting, P1), the learning curve on the new categories of the second (transfer) setting P2 becomes much better. For deep representations, fewer labeled examples of the transfer tasks are necessary to achieve the apparently asymptotic generalization performance.
Two extreme forms of transfer learning are one-shot learning and zero-shot learning, sometimes also called zero-data learning. Only one labeled example of the transfer task is given for one-shot learning, while no labeled examples are given at all for the zero-shot learning task.
One-shot learning (Fei-Fei et al., 2006) is possible because the representation learns to cleanly separate the underlying classes during the first stage. During the transfer learning stage, only one labeled example is needed to infer the label of many possible test examples that all cluster around the same point in representation space. This works to the extent that the factors of variation corresponding to these invariances have been cleanly separated from the other factors, in the learned representation space, and we have somehow learned which factors do and do not matter when discriminating objects of certain categories.
As an example of a zero-shot learning setting, consider the problem of having a learner read a large collection of text and then solve object recognition problems.
538

