CHAPTER 5. MACHINE LEARNING BASICS
the imperfection of the optimization algorithm, mean that the learning algorithm's effective capacity may be less than the representational capacity of the model family.
Our modern ideas about improving the generalization of machine learning models are refinements of thought dating back to philosophers at least as early as Ptolemy. Many early scholars invoke a principle of parsimony that is now most widely known as Occam's razor (c. 1287-1347). This principle states that among competing hypotheses that explain known observations equally well, one should choose the "simplest" one. This idea was formalized and made more precise in the 20th century by the founders of statistical learning theory (Vapnik and Chervonenkis, 1971; Vapnik, 1982; Blumer et al., 1989; Vapnik, 1995).
Statistical learning theory provides various means of quantifying model capacity. Among these, the most well-known is the Vapnik-Chervonenkis dimension, or VC dimension. The VC dimension measures the capacity of a binary classifier. The VC dimension is defined as being the largest possible value of m for which there exists a training set of m different x points that the classifier can label arbitrarily.
Quantifying the capacity of the model allows statistical learning theory to make quantitative predictions. The most important results in statistical learning theory show that the discrepancy between training error and generalization error is bounded from above by a quantity that grows as the model capacity grows but shrinks as the number of training examples increases (Vapnik and Chervonenkis, 1971; Vapnik, 1982; Blumer et al., 1989; Vapnik, 1995). These bounds provide intellectual justification that machine learning algorithms can work, but they are rarely used in practice when working with deep learning algorithms. This is in part because the bounds are often quite loose and in part because it can be quite difficult to determine the capacity of deep learning algorithms. The problem of determining the capacity of a deep learning model is especially difficult because the effective capacity is limited by the capabilities of the optimization algorithm, and we have little theoretical understanding of the very general non-convex optimization problems involved in deep learning.
We must remember that while simpler functions are more likely to generalize (to have a small gap between training and test error) we must still choose a sufficiently complex hypothesis to achieve low training error. Typically, training error decreases until it asymptotes to the minimum possible error value as model capacity increases (assuming the error measure has a minimum value). Typically, generalization error has a U-shaped curve as a function of model capacity. This is illustrated in figure 5.3.
To reach the most extreme case of arbitrarily high capacity, we introduce
114

