CHAPTER 20. DEEP GENERATIVE MODELS
DBMs may be trained jointly while DBMs require a greedy layer-wise pretraining. The disadvantage of back-propagating through the approximate inference graph is that it does not provide a way to optimize the log-likelihood, but rather a heuristic approximation of the generalized pseudolikelihood.
The MP-DBM inspired the NADE-k (Raiko et al., 2014) extension to the NADE framework, which is described in section 20.10.10.
The MP-DBM has some connections to dropout. Dropout shares the same parameters among many different computational graphs, with the difference between each graph being whether it includes or excludes each unit. The MP-DBM also shares parameters across many computational graphs. In the case of the MP-DBM, the difference between the graphs is whether each input unit is observed or not. When a unit is not observed, the MP-DBM does not delete it entirely as dropout does. Instead, the MP-DBM treats it as a latent variable to be inferred. One could imagine applying dropout to the MP-DBM by additionally removing some units rather than making them latent.
20.5 Boltzmann Machines for Real-Valued Data
While Boltzmann machines were originally developed for use with binary data, many applications such as image and audio modeling seem to require the ability to represent probability distributions over real values. In some cases, it is possible to treat real-valued data in the interval [0, 1] as representing the expectation of a binary variable. For example, Hinton (2000) treats grayscale images in the training set as defining [0,1] probability values. Each pixel defines the probability of a binary value being 1, and the binary pixels are all sampled independently from each other. This is a common procedure for evaluating binary models on grayscale image datasets. However, it is not a particularly theoretically satisfying approach, and binary images sampled independently in this way have a noisy appearance. In this section, we present Boltzmann machines that define a probability density over real-valued data.
20.5.1 Gaussian-Bernoulli RBMs
Restricted Boltzmann machines may be developed for many exponential family conditional distributions (Welling et al., 2005). Of these, the most common is the RBM with binary hidden units and real-valued visible units, with the conditional distribution over the visible units being a Gaussian distribution whose mean is a function of the hidden units.
676

