CHAPTER 12. APPLICATIONS
a neural network with an extra set of inputs that are connected directly to the output, and not connected to any other part of the model. The extra inputs are indicators for the presence of particular n-grams in the input context, so these variables are very high-dimensional and very sparse. The increase in model capacity is huge--the new portion of the architecture contains up to |sV |n parameters--but the amount of added computation needed to process an input is minimal because the extra inputs are very sparse.
12.4.5 Neural Machine Translation
Machine translation is the task of reading a sentence in one natural language and emitting a sentence with the equivalent meaning in another language. Machine translation systems often involve many components. At a high level, there is often one component that proposes many candidate translations. Many of these translations will not be grammatical due to differences between the languages. For example, many languages put adjectives after nouns, so when translated to English directly they yield phrases such as "apple red." The proposal mechanism suggests many variants of the suggested translation, ideally including "red apple." A second component of the translation system, a language model, evaluates the proposed translations, and can score "red apple" as better than "apple red."
The earliest use of neural networks for machine translation was to upgrade the language model of a translation system by using a neural language model (Schwenk et al., 2006; Schwenk, 2010). Previously, most machine translation systems had used an n-gram model for this component. The n-gram based models used for machine translation include not just traditional back-off n-gram models (Jelinek and Mercer, 1980; Katz, 1987; Chen and Goodman, 1999) but also maximum entropy language models (Berger et al., 1996), in which an affine-softmax layer predicts the next word given the presence of frequent n-grams in the context.
Traditional language models simply report the probability of a natural language sentence. Because machine translation involves producing an output sentence given an input sentence, it makes sense to extend the natural language model to be conditional. As described in section 6.2.1.1, it is straightforward to extend a model that defines a marginal distribution over some variable to define a conditional distribution over that variable given a context C, where C might be a single variable or a list of variables. Devlin et al. (2014) beat the state-of-the-art in some statistical machine translation benchmarks by using an MLP to score a phrase t1, t2, . . . , tk in the target language given a phrase s1, s2, . . . , sn in the source language. The MLP estimates P (t1 , t2, . . . , tk | s1 , s2 , . . . , sn ). The estimate formed by this MLP replaces the estimate provided by conditional n-gram models.
473

