CHAPTER 12. APPLICATIONS
Output object (English sentence)
Decoder
Intermediate, semantic representation
Encoder
Source object (French sentence or image)
Figure 12.5: The encoder-decoder architecture to map back and forth between a surface representation (such as a sequence of words or an image) and a semantic representation. By using the output of an encoder of data from one modality (such as the encoder mapping from French sentences to hidden representations capturing the meaning of sentences) as the input to a decoder for another modality (such as the decoder mapping from hidden representations capturing the meaning of sentences to English), we can train systems that translate from one modality to another. This idea has been applied successfully not just to machine translation but also to caption generation from images.
A drawback of the MLP-based approach is that it requires the sequences to be preprocessed to be of fixed length. To make the translation more flexible, we would like to use a model that can accommodate variable length inputs and variable length outputs. An RNN provides this ability. Section 10.2.4 describes several ways of constructing an RNN that represents a conditional distribution over a sequence given some input, and section 10.4 describes how to accomplish this conditioning when the input is a sequence. In all cases, one model first reads the input sequence and emits a data structure that summarizes the input sequence. We call this summary the "context" C . The context C may be a list of vectors, or it may be a vector or tensor. The model that reads the input to produce C may be an RNN (Cho et al., 2014a; Sutskever et al., 2014; Jean et al., 2014) or a convolutional network (Kalchbrenner and Blunsom, 2013). A second model, usually an RNN, then reads the context C and generates a sentence in the target language. This general idea of an encoder-decoder framework for machine translation is illustrated in figure 12.5.
In order to generate an entire sentence conditioned on the source sentence, the model must have a way to represent the entire source sentence. Earlier models were only able to represent individual words or phrases. From a representation
474

