CHAPTER 5. MACHINE LEARNING BASICS
entire checkerboard right is to cover each of its cells with at least one example.
The smoothness assumption and the associated non-parametric learning algorithms work extremely well so long as there are enough examples for the learning algorithm to observe high points on most peaks and low points on most valleys of the true underlying function to be learned. This is generally true when the function to be learned is smooth enough and varies in few enough dimensions. In high dimensions, even a very smooth function can change smoothly but in a different way along each dimension. If the function additionally behaves differently in different regions, it can become extremely complicated to describe with a set of training examples. If the function is complicated (we want to distinguish a huge number of regions compared to the number of examples), is there any hope to generalize well?
The answer to both of these questions--whether it is possible to represent a complicated function efficiently, and whether it is possible for the estimated function to generalize well to new inputs--is yes. The key insight is that a very large number of regions, e.g., O(2k ), can be defined with O(k) examples, so long as we introduce some dependencies between the regions via additional assumptions about the underlying data generating distribution. In this way, we can actually generalize non-locally (Bengio and Monperrus, 2005; Bengio et al., 2006c). Many different deep learning algorithms provide implicit or explicit assumptions that are reasonable for a broad range of AI tasks in order to capture these advantages.
Other approaches to machine learning often make stronger, task-specific assumptions. For example, we could easily solve the checkerboard task by providing the assumption that the target function is periodic. Usually we do not include such strong, task-specific assumptions into neural networks so that they can generalize to a much wider variety of structures. AI tasks have structure that is much too complex to be limited to simple, manually specified properties such as periodicity, so we want learning algorithms that embody more general-purpose assumptions. The core idea in deep learning is that we assume that the data was generated by the composition of factors or features, potentially at multiple levels in a hierarchy. Many other similarly generic assumptions can further improve deep learning algorithms. These apparently mild assumptions allow an exponential gain in the relationship between the number of examples and the number of regions that can be distinguished. These exponential gains are described more precisely in sections 6.4.1, 15.4 and 15.5. The exponential advantages conferred by the use of deep, distributed representations counter the exponential challenges posed by the curse of dimensionality.
160

