CHAPTER 8. OPTIMIZATION FOR TRAINING DEEP MODELS
become approximately convex when blurred. In many cases, this blurring preserves enough information about the location of a global minimum that we can find the global minimum by solving progressively less blurred versions of the problem. This approach can break down in three different ways. First, it might successfully define a series of cost functions where the first is convex and the optimum tracks from one function to the next arriving at the global minimum, but it might require so many incremental cost functions that the cost of the entire procedure remains high. NP-hard optimization problems remain NP-hard, even when continuation methods are applicable. The other two ways that continuation methods fail both correspond to the method not being applicable. First, the function might not become convex, no matter how much it is blurred. Consider for example the function J() = -. Second, the function may become convex as a result of blurring, but the minimum of this blurred function may track to a local rather than a global minimum of the original cost function.
Though continuation methods were mostly originally designed to deal with the problem of local minima, local minima are no longer believed to be the primary problem for neural network optimization. Fortunately, continuation methods can still help. The easier objective functions introduced by the continuation method can eliminate flat regions, decrease variance in gradient estimates, improve conditioning of the Hessian matrix, or do anything else that will either make local updates easier to compute or improve the correspondence between local update directions and progress toward a global solution.
Bengio et al. (2009) observed that an approach called curriculum learning or shaping can be interpreted as a continuation method. Curriculum learning is based on the idea of planning a learning process to begin by learning simple concepts and progress to learning more complex concepts that depend on these simpler concepts. This basic strategy was previously known to accelerate progress in animal training (Skinner, 1958; Peterson, 2004; Krueger and Dayan, 2009) and machine learning (Solomonoff, 1989; Elman, 1993; Sanger, 1994). Bengio et al. (2009) justified this strategy as a continuation method, where earlier J(i) are made easier by increasing the influence of simpler examples (either by assigning their contributions to the cost function larger coefficients, or by sampling them more frequently), and experimentally demonstrated that better results could be obtained by following a curriculum on a large-scale neural language modeling task. Curriculum learning has been successful on a wide range of natural language (Spitkovsky et al., 2010; Collobert et al., 2011a; Mikolov et al., 2011b; Tu and Honavar, 2011) and computer vision (Kumar et al., 2010; Lee and Grauman, 2011; Supancic and Ramanan, 2013) tasks. Curriculum learning was also verified as being consistent with the way in which humans teach (Khan et al., 2011): teachers start by showing easier and
328

