CHAPTER 12. APPLICATIONS
exotic applications that expand the realm of what is possible with imagery but rather a small core of AI goals aimed at replicating human abilities. Most deep learning for computer vision is used for object recognition or detection of some form, whether this means reporting which object is present in an image, annotating an image with bounding boxes around each object, transcribing a sequence of symbols from an image, or labeling each pixel in an image with the identity of the object it belongs to. Because generative modeling has been a guiding principle of deep learning research, there is also a large body of work on image synthesis using deep models. While image synthesis ex nihilo is usually not considered a computer vision endeavor, models capable of image synthesis are usually useful for image restoration, a computer vision task involving repairing defects in images or removing objects from images.
12.2.1 Preprocessing
Many application areas require sophisticated preprocessing because the original input comes in a form that is difficult for many deep learning architectures to represent. Computer vision usually requires relatively little of this kind of preprocessing. The images should be standardized so that their pixels all lie in the same, reasonable range, like [0,1] or [-1, 1]. Mixing images that lie in [0,1] with images that lie in [0, 255] will usually result in failure. Formatting images to have the same scale is the only kind of preprocessing that is strictly necessary. Many computer vision architectures require images of a standard size, so images must be cropped or scaled to fit that size. Even this rescaling is not always strictly necessary. Some convolutional models accept variably-sized inputs and dynamically adjust the size of their pooling regions to keep the output size constant (Waibel et al., 1989). Other convolutional models have variable-sized output that automatically scales in size with the input, such as models that denoise or label each pixel in an image (Hadsell et al., 2007).
Dataset augmentation may be seen as a way of preprocessing the training set only. Dataset augmentation is an excellent way to reduce the generalization error of most computer vision models. A related idea applicable at test time is to show the model many different versions of the same input (for example, the same image cropped at slightly different locations) and have the different instantiations of the model vote to determine the output. This latter idea can be interpreted as an ensemble approach, and helps to reduce generalization error.
Other kinds of preprocessing are applied to both the train and the test set with the goal of putting each example into a more canonical form in order to reduce the amount of variation that the model needs to account for. Reducing the amount of
453

