CHAPTER 3. PROBABILITY AND INFORMATION THEORY

describe the entire joint probability distribution can be very inefficient (both computationally and statistically).
Instead of using a single function to represent a probability distribution, we can split a probability distribution into many factors that we multiply together. For example, suppose we have three random variables: a, b and c. Suppose that a influences the value of b and b influences the value of c, but that a and c are independent given b. We can represent the probability distribution over all three variables as a product of probability distributions over two variables:

p(a, b, c) = p(a)p(b | a)p(c | b).

(3.52)

These factorizations can greatly reduce the number of parameters needed to describe the distribution. Each factor uses a number of parameters that is exponential in the number of variables in the factor. This means that we can greatly reduce the cost of representing a distribution if we are able to find a factorization into distributions over fewer variables.
We can describe these kinds of factorizations using graphs. Here we use the word "graph" in the sense of graph theory: a set of vertices that may be connected to each other with edges. When we represent the factorization of a probability distribution with a graph, we call it a structured probabilistic model or graphical model.

There are two main kinds of structured probabilistic models: directed and undirected. Both kinds of graphical models use a graph G in which each node in the graph corresponds to a random variable, and an edge connecting two random variables means that the probability distribution is able to represent direct interactions between those two random variables.

Directed models use graphs with directed edges, and they represent fac-

torizations into conditional probability distributions, as in the example above.

Specifically, a directed model contains one factor for every random variable xi in

the distribution, and that factor consists of the conditional distribution over xi

given the parents of xi, denoted P aG(xi ):

 p(x) = p (xi | P aG (xi)) .

(3.53)

i

See figure 3.7 for an example of a directed graph and the factorization of probability distributions it represents.
Undirected models use graphs with undirected edges, and they represent factorizations into a set of functions; unlike in the directed case, these functions

77

