CHAPTER 5. MACHINE LEARNING BASICS
5.3.1 Cross-Validation
Dividing the dataset into a fixed training set and a fixed test set can be problematic if it results in the test set being small. A small test set implies statistical uncertainty around the estimated average test error, making it difficult to claim that algorithm A works better than algorithm B on the given task.
When the dataset has hundreds of thousands of examples or more, this is not a serious issue. When the dataset is too small, are alternative procedures enable one to use all of the examples in the estimation of the mean test error, at the price of increased computational cost. These procedures are based on the idea of repeating the training and testing computation on different randomly chosen subsets or splits of the original dataset. The most common of these is the k-fold cross-validation procedure, shown in algorithm 5.1, in which a partition of the dataset is formed by splitting it into k non-overlapping subsets. The test error may then be estimated by taking the average test error across k trials. On trial i, the i -th subset of the data is used as the test set and the rest of the data is used as the training set. One problem is that there exist no unbiased estimators of the variance of such average error estimators (Bengio and Grandvalet, 2004), but approximations are typically used.
5.4 Estimators, Bias and Variance
The field of statistics gives us many tools that can be used to achieve the machine learning goal of solving a task not only on the training set but also to generalize. Foundational concepts such as parameter estimation, bias and variance are useful to formally characterize notions of generalization, underfitting and overfitting.
5.4.1 Point Estimation
Point estimation is the attempt to provide the single "best" prediction of some quantity of interest. In general the quantity of interest can be a single parameter or a vector of parameters in some parametric model, such as the weights in our linear regression example in section 5.1.4, but it can also be a whole function.
In order to distinguish estimates of parameters from their true value, our convention will be to denote a point estimate of a parameter  by ^.
Let {x(1) , . . . , x(m) } be a set of m independent and identically distributed
122

