CHAPTER 20. DEEP GENERATIVE MODELS
network participates in shaping those statistics, but the weight can be updated without knowing anything about the rest of the network or how those statistics were produced. This means that the learning rule is "local," which makes Boltzmann machine learning somewhat biologically plausible. It is conceivable that if each neuron were a random variable in a Boltzmann machine, then the axons and dendrites connecting two random variables could learn only by observing the firing pattern of the cells that they actually physically touch. In particular, in the positive phase, two units that frequently activate together have their connection strengthened. This is an example of a Hebbian learning rule (Hebb, 1949) often summarized with the mnemonic "fire together, wire together." Hebbian learning rules are among the oldest hypothesized explanations for learning in biological systems and remain relevant today (Giudice et al., 2009).
Other learning algorithms that use more information than local statistics seem to require us to hypothesize the existence of more machinery than this. For example, for the brain to implement back-propagation in a multilayer perceptron, it seems necessary for the brain to maintain a secondary communication network for transmitting gradient information backwards through the network. Proposals for biologically plausible implementations (and approximations) of back-propagation have been made (Hinton, 2007a; Bengio, 2015) but remain to be validated, and Bengio (2015) links back-propagation of gradients to inference in energy-based models similar to the Boltzmann machine (but with continuous latent variables).
The negative phase of Boltzmann machine learning is somewhat harder to explain from a biological point of view. As argued in section 18.2, dream sleep may be a form of negative phase sampling. This idea is more speculative though.
20.2 Restricted Boltzmann Machines
Invented under the name harmonium (Smolensky, 1986), restricted Boltzmann machines are some of the most common building blocks of deep probabilistic models. We have briefly described RBMs previously, in section 16.7.1. Here we review the previous information and go into more detail. RBMs are undirected probabilistic graphical models containing a layer of observable variables and a single layer of latent variables. RBMs may be stacked (one on top of the other) to form deeper models. See figure 20.1 for some examples. In particular, figure 20.1a shows the graph structure of the RBM itself. It is a bipartite graph, with no connections permitted between any variables in the observed layer or between any units in the latent layer.
656

