CHAPTER 12. APPLICATIONS
12.5 Other Applications
In this section we cover a few other types of applications of deep learning that are different from the standard object recognition, speech recognition and natural language processing tasks discussed above. Part III of this book will expand that scope even further to tasks that remain primarily research areas.
12.5.1 Recommender Systems
One of the major families of applications of machine learning in the information technology sector is the ability to make recommendations of items to potential users or customers. Two major types of applications can be distinguished: online advertising and item recommendations (often these recommendations are still for the purpose of selling a product). Both rely on predicting the association between a user and an item, either to predict the probability of some action (the user buying the product, or some proxy for this action) or the expected gain (which may depend on the value of the product) if an ad is shown or a recommendation is made regarding that product to that user. The internet is currently financed in great part by various forms of online advertising. There are major parts of the economy that rely on online shopping. Companies including Amazon and eBay use machine learning, including deep learning, for their product recommendations. Sometimes, the items are not products that are actually for sale. Examples include selecting posts to display on social network news feeds, recommending movies to watch, recommending jokes, recommending advice from experts, matching players for video games, or matching people in dating services.
Often, this association problem is handled like a supervised learning problem: given some information about the item and about the user, predict the proxy of interest (user clicks on ad, user enters a rating, user clicks on a "like" button, user buys product, user spends some amount of money on the product, user spends time visiting a page for the product, etc). This often ends up being either a regression problem (predicting some conditional expected value) or a probabilistic classification problem (predicting the conditional probability of some discrete event).
The early work on recommender systems relied on minimal information as inputs for these predictions: the user ID and the item ID. In this context, the only way to generalize is to rely on the similarity between the patterns of values of the target variable for different users or for different items. Suppose that user 1 and user 2 both like items A, B and C. From this, we may infer that user 1 and
478

