p(x)

CHAPTER 18. CONFRONTING THE PARTITION FUNCTION
pmodel (x) pdata(x)
x
Figure 18.2: An illustration of how the negative phase of contrastive divergence (algorithm 18.2) can fail to suppress spurious modes. A spurious mode is a mode that is present in the model distribution but absent in the data distribution. Because contrastive divergence initializes its Markov chains from data points and runs the Markov chain for only a few steps, it is unlikely to visit modes in the model that are far from the data points. This means that when sampling from the model, we will sometimes get samples that do not resemble the data. It also means that due to wasting some of its probability mass on these modes, the model will struggle to place high probability mass on the correct modes. For the purpose of visualization, this figure uses a somewhat simplified concept of distance--the spurious mode is far from the correct mode along the number line in R. This corresponds to a Markov chain based on making local moves with a single x variable in R. For most deep probabilistic models, the Markov chains are based on Gibbs sampling and can make non-local moves of individual variables but cannot move all of the variables simultaneously. For these problems, it is usually better to consider the edit distance between modes, rather than the Euclidean distance. However, edit distance in a high dimensional space is difficult to depict in a 2-D plot.
Markov chains initialized at training points, unless k is very large. Carreira-Perpiñan and Hinton (2005) showed experimentally that the CD
estimator is biased for RBMs and fully visible Boltzmann machines, in that it converges to different points than the maximum likelihood estimator. They argue that because the bias is small, CD could be used as an inexpensive way to initialize a model that could later be fine-tuned via more expensive MCMC methods. Bengio and Delalleau (2009) showed that CD can be interpreted as discarding the smallest terms of the correct MCMC update gradient, which explains the bias.
CD is useful for training shallow models like RBMs. These can in turn be stacked to initialize deeper models like DBNs or DBMs. However, CD does not provide much help for training deeper models directly. This is because it is difficult
611

