CHAPTER 2. LINEAR ALGEBRA

define a vector by writing out its elements in the text inline as a row matrix, then using the transpose operator to turn it into a standard column vector, e.g., x = [x1, x2, x3 ].
A scalar can be thought of as a matrix with only a single entry. From this, we can see that a scalar is its own transpose: a = a.
We can add matrices to each other, as long as they have the same shape, just by adding their corresponding elements: C = A + B where Ci,j = Ai,j + B i,j.
We can also add a scalar to a matrix or multiply a matrix by a scalar, just by performing that operation on each element of a matrix: D = a · B + c where Di,j = a · Bi,j + c.
In the context of deep learning, we also use some less conventional notation. We allow the addition of matrix and a vector, yielding another matrix: C = A + b, where Ci,j = Ai,j + bj. In other words, the vector b is added to each row of the matrix. This shorthand eliminates the need to define a matrix with b copied into each row before doing the addition. This implicit copying of b to many locations is called broadcasting.

2.2 Multiplying Matrices and Vectors

One of the most important operations involving matrices is multiplication of two

matrices. The matrix product of matrices A and B is a third matrix C . In

order for this product to be defined, A must have the same number of columns as

B has rows. If A is of shape m × n and B is of shape n × p, then C is of shape

m × p. We can write the matrix product just by placing two or more matrices

together, e.g.

C = AB.

(2.4)

The product operation is defined by 
Ci,j = Ai,k Bk,j.
k

(2.5)

Note that the standard product of two matrices is not just a matrix containing the product of the individual elements. Such an operation exists and is called the element-wise product or Hadamard product, and is denoted as A  B.
The dot product between two vectors x and y of the same dimensionality is the matrix product xy. We can think of the matrix product C = AB as computing Ci,j as the dot product between row i of A and column j of B.

34

