CHAPTER 5. MACHINE LEARNING BASICS

functions. Models with low capacity may struggle to fit the training set. Models with high capacity can overfit by memorizing properties of the training set that do not serve them well on the test set.
One way to control the capacity of a learning algorithm is by choosing its hypothesis space, the set of functions that the learning algorithm is allowed to select as being the solution. For example, the linear regression algorithm has the set of all linear functions of its input as its hypothesis space. We can generalize linear regression to include polynomials, rather than just linear functions, in its hypothesis space. Doing so increases the model's capacity.
A polynomial of degree one gives us the linear regression model with which we are already familiar, with prediction

y^ = b + wx.

(5.15)

By introducing x2 as another feature provided to the linear regression model, we can learn a model that is quadratic as a function of x:

y^ = b + w1x + w2x2 .

(5.16)

Though this model implements a quadratic function of its input, the output is still a linear function of the parameters, so we can still use the normal equations to train the model in closed form. We can continue to add more powers of x as additional features, for example to obtain a polynomial of degree 9:

y^ = b + 9 wixi.
i=1

(5.17)

Machine learning algorithms will generally perform best when their capacity is appropriate for the true complexity of the task they need to perform and the amount of training data they are provided with. Models with insufficient capacity are unable to solve complex tasks. Models with high capacity can solve complex tasks, but when their capacity is higher than needed to solve the present task they may overfit.
Figure 5.2 shows this principle in action. We compare a linear, quadratic and degree-9 predictor attempting to fit a problem where the true underlying function is quadratic. The linear function is unable to capture the curvature in the true underlying problem, so it underfits. The degree-9 predictor is capable of representing the correct function, but it is also capable of representing infinitely many other functions that pass exactly through the training points, because we
112

