CHAPTER 6. DEEP FEEDFORWARD NETWORKS
From this point of view, the modern feedforward network is the culmination of centuries of progress on the general function approximation task.
The chain rule that underlies the back-propagation algorithm was invented in the 17th century (Leibniz, 1676; L'Hôpital, 1696). Calculus and algebra have long been used to solve optimization problems in closed form, but gradient descent was not introduced as a technique for iteratively approximating the solution to optimization problems until the 19th century (Cauchy, 1847).
Beginning in the 1940s, these function approximation techniques were used to motivate machine learning models such as the perceptron. However, the earliest models were based on linear models. Critics including Marvin Minsky pointed out several of the flaws of the linear model family, such as its inability to learn the XOR function, which led to a backlash against the entire neural network approach.
Learning nonlinear functions required the development of a multilayer perceptron and a means of computing the gradient through such a model. Efficient applications of the chain rule based on dynamic programming began to appear in the 1960s and 1970s, mostly for control applications (Kelley, 1960; Bryson and Denham, 1961; Dreyfus, 1962; Bryson and Ho, 1969; Dreyfus, 1973) but also for sensitivity analysis (Linnainmaa, 1976). Werbos (1981) proposed applying these techniques to training artificial neural networks. The idea was finally developed in practice after being independently rediscovered in different ways (LeCun, 1985; Parker, 1985; Rumelhart et al., 1986a). The book Parallel Distributed Processing presented the results of some of the first successful experiments with back-propagation in a chapter (Rumelhart et al., 1986b) that contributed greatly to the popularization of back-propagation and initiated a very active period of research in multi-layer neural networks. However, the ideas put forward by the authors of that book and in particular by Rumelhart and Hinton go much beyond back-propagation. They include crucial ideas about the possible computational implementation of several central aspects of cognition and learning, which came under the name of "connectionism" because of the importance this school of thought places on the connections between neurons as the locus of learning and memory. In particular, these ideas include the notion of distributed representation (Hinton et al., 1986).
Following the success of back-propagation, neural network research gained popularity and reached a peak in the early 1990s. Afterwards, other machine learning techniques became more popular until the modern deep learning renaissance that began in 2006.
The core ideas behind modern feedforward networks have not changed substantially since the 1980s. The same back-propagation algorithm and the same
225

