CHAPTER 12. APPLICATIONS
shifted from being based on pretraining and Boltzmann machines to being based on techniques such as rectified linear units and dropout (Zeiler et al., 2013; Dahl et al., 2013). By that time, several of the major speech groups in industry had started exploring deep learning in collaboration with academic researchers. Hinton et al. (2012a) describe the breakthroughs achieved by these collaborators, which are now deployed in products such as mobile phones.
Later, as these groups explored larger and larger labeled datasets and incorporated some of the methods for initializing, training, and setting up the architecture of deep nets, they realized that the unsupervised pretraining phase was either unnecessary or did not bring any significant improvement.
These breakthroughs in recognition performance for word error rate in speech recognition were unprecedented (around 30% improvement) and were following a long period of about ten years during which error rates did not improve much with the traditional GMM-HMM technology, in spite of the continuously growing size of training sets (see figure 2.4 of Deng and Yu (2014)). This created a rapid shift in the speech recognition community towards deep learning. In a matter of roughly two years, most of the industrial products for speech recognition incorporated deep neural networks and this success spurred a new wave of research into deep learning algorithms and architectures for ASR, which is still ongoing today.
One of these innovations was the use of convolutional networks (Sainath et al., 2013) that replicate weights across time and frequency, improving over the earlier time-delay neural networks that replicated weights only across time. The new two-dimensional convolutional models regard the input spectrogram not as one long vector but as an image, with one axis corresponding to time and the other to frequency of spectral components.
Another important push, still ongoing, has been towards end-to-end deep learning speech recognition systems that completely remove the HMM. The first major breakthrough in this direction came from Graves et al. (2013) who trained a deep LSTM RNN (see section 10.10), using MAP inference over the frame-tophoneme alignment, as in LeCun et al. (1998b) and in the CTC framework (Graves et al., 2006; Graves, 2012). A deep RNN (Graves et al., 2013) has state variables from several layers at each time step, giving the unfolded graph two kinds of depth: ordinary depth due to a stack of layers, and depth due to time unfolding. This work brought the phoneme error rate on TIMIT to a record low of 17.7%. See Pascanu et al. (2014a) and Chung et al. (2014) for other variants of deep RNNs, applied in other settings.
Another contemporary step toward end-to-end deep learning ASR is to let the system learn how to "align" the acoustic-level information with the phonetic-level
460

