CHAPTER 20. DEEP GENERATIVE MODELS
(protein secondary structure) and introduced a (one-dimensional) convolutional structure in the transition operator of the Markov chain. It is important to remember that, for each step of the Markov chain, one generates a new sequence for each layer, and that sequence is the input for computing other layer values (say the one below and the one above) at the next time step.
Hence the Markov chain is really over the output variable (and associated higherlevel hidden layers), and the input sequence only serves to condition that chain, with back-propagation allowing to learn how the input sequence can condition the output distribution implicitly represented by the Markov chain. It is therefore a case of using the GSN in the context of structured outputs.
Zöhrer and Pernkopf (2014) introduced a hybrid model that combines a supervised objective (as in the above work) and an unsupervised objective (as in the original GSN work), by simply adding (with a different weight) the supervised and unsupervised costs i.e., the reconstruction log-probabilities of y and x respectively. Such a hybrid criterion had previously been introduced for RBMs by Larochelle and Bengio (2008). They show improved classification performance using this scheme.
20.13 Other Generation Schemes
The methods we have described so far use either MCMC sampling, ancestral sampling, or some mixture of the two to generate samples. While these are the most popular approaches to generative modeling, they are by no means the only approaches.
Sohl-Dickstein et al. (2015) developed a diffusion inversion training scheme for learning a generative model, based on non-equilibrium thermodynamics. The approach is based on the idea that the probability distributions we wish to sample from have structure. This structure can gradually be destroyed by a diffusion process that incrementally changes the probability distribution to have more entropy. To form a generative model, we can run the process in reverse, by training a model that gradually restores the structure to an unstructured distribution. By iteratively applying a process that brings a distribution closer to the target one, we can gradually approach that target distribution. This approach resembles MCMC methods in the sense that it involves many iterations to produce a sample. However, the model is defined to be the probability distribution produced by the final step of the chain. In this sense, there is no approximation induced by the iterative procedure. The approach introduced by Sohl-Dickstein et al. (2015) is also very close to the generative interpretation of the denoising autoencoder
716

